in the center of funchal you'll find the
Madeira wine company their most famous
brand is bland ease let's pay a visit
and examine the four different types
soon after the discovery of the island
of Madeira and 1419 the Madeira wine
vineyards were started the wine quickly
became famous and was in fact used to
toast the American Declaration of
Independence on july 4th 1776 now let's
join our host francisco in the tasting
room to learn more about madeira wine
and it's four distinct types searcy I'll
is step number one so CL is a aperitif
wine very dry is the name of the variety
or the the grippe is the name of the
wine cirsium so the CCL is the driest of
the four it served cool and as an
aperitif yes correct
verdad yo is step number two this is the
world I know the verdi low is the name
of the grippe and of course the name to
Y is a median dry wine is coming to
serving the twine with soups here's the
brown step number three search mine is a
dub wall well of course again is the
name of the variety and name of the wine
the core is much more dark than sushi
and the Verdi no because that the
resulting of the oxidation of the
residual sugar is a median sweet wine
and finally the malmsey the mumsy exists
in madera directly after the discovery
of the onion this the more popular
variety from the medina wines because
it's a very sweet wine and very rich and
it's only to smell the one and you know
that one is a sweet wine that impression
exist ok so here's the recap the Circe
al is the dry Madeira and lightest in
color the verdad yo medium dry madhura
the blue I'll medium rich Madeira and
the mounds e-rich Madeira and darkest in
color
the origins of the Madeira wine company
started in 1913 today the company with
tours most of its wines by the
traditional can t arrow system of
warming the wines gently in the lofts of
its funchal lodges now here's Anna to
tell us some more about the great
Madeira wines
25 that's the number
which hands of wine which is being
blended while the medium sweet from 1501
one of the white
it's beginning to
as the most important shipper of Island
bottled Madeira the business is well
placed to continue the revival of this
most historic wine here at the old bland
ease wine lodge you can come in sit down
and taste the wine to your heart's
content whether it's the dry sociale or
the rich malmsey just choose your
favorite and carried away
you